you can use Neuroscience to hack your
brain to self-study way faster and you
can use AI to enhance those effects even
more as a child I absolutely hated
school have you ever experienced that
feeling when you're not paying attention
and that a teacher calls on you for a
question and you just like don't know
what the teacher asked H so your choices
are either say something random or ask a
teacher to repeat themselves neither of
which are good choices to do but I
always did well in school though I
really did get so good at self-studying
that I was able to learn like an entire
semester's worth of work in like 3 days
but don't just be like oh my God Tina
it's cuz you're smart no really I'm
really not that smart because if I don't
use these self-study techniques I
immediately go back to not knowing
what's happening and just like unable to
understand anything so in this video I'm
going to share with you guys the
Neuroscience behind the mechanisms that
allow us to learn how we can actually
hack these mechanisms and how to use AI
tools to really enhance these effects a
portion of this video is sponsored by
HubSpot so first problem that a lot of
people have is that they can't
concentrate on things for me this was
most obvious when I would go to a
lecture in college I would be trying my
best to focus on Professor but within 5
minutes I would just like suddenly
realize that I wasn't like I don't even
know what I was doing and by then the
professor would have moved on to the
next few topics and because I didn't
have the context of the previous stuff I
just had like no idea what was happening
for the rest of the lecture and this was
especially bad when it was like very
logically intense subjects like math or
physics within the first 5 minutes I
would just be done like I might as well
just leave or sleep or something
when most people think of memory they
imagine something like a bookshelf where
you can take them out remember things
and then put it back in the same spot
just the way it was but that is
completely wrong because memory is not
static it's more like a busy City where
memories like construction sites are
constantly being built renovated and
demolished the city's layout keeps
changing there's new connections and
tunnels that are being formed and the
flow of traffic adapts to these
different
changes so this is a really good model
of a life cycle of a memory so first
living in our Meats suit we're exposed
to lots and lots of sensory information
sites smells sounds touch taste most of
this information is actually filtered
out automatically so you never even
became aware of them but if you
concentrate on certain things that
information is passed on to your
short-term memory within the short-term
memory you're able to remember around 7
plus Remus two different things you have
to think about that thing rehearse it in
your brain if that information lasts up
to 30 seconds and it's still there
congratulations it goes into long-term
memory but like we said earlier in
long-term memory it's not like it's a
bookshelf where things are static it's
that bustling City that memory is
interacting with all the other memories
it could be reconstructed it could be
overwritten but assuming that it's
accessible we can then retrieve that
memory back into short-term memory where
we can do stuff with it so this is a
simplified version of how the memory
process works now going back to our
problem of not being able to concentrate
on things that is at that beginning
stage where the sensory information is
coming in and concentration is how
you're able to filter the right
information to get it into short-term
memory you need to help your brain
filter out irrelevant things and direct
its attention on the right things
Studies have shown three common ways
that you can do this so one of the best
research mechanism to be able to filter
out relevant information and to focus
more is by increasing your physiological
arousal not to what you think
physiological arousal is when your body
is in a more alert State you're more
awake you're more attented you're more
energized the most obvious thing you can
do to increase your physiological
arousal is to go drink a cup of coffee
works great but something else that can
enhance us even more is motion moving
your body automatically makes you feel
more energized my preferred method is
absorbing through audio methods and then
just kind of like pacing up and down
audio books are obviously great but not
all content comes as an audio form so I
like using this app called speechify
which is able to convert text into audio
form in this way I'm able to pace and
just like move around while I'm focusing
on the audio stuff does this mean that I
don't have to go back and actually read
things anymore uh absolutely not but I
find that it's really helpful at least
going through a first pass of trying to
learn information next I want to talk
about the second way that you can kind
of energize yourself and that is by
inducing panic have you ever experienced
the fact that suddenly when there's a
deadline coming up your concentration
level is amazing like laser focused
that's because you're sending yourself
into a very physiologically arout state
where you can suddenly concentrate very
well so luckily in school you generally
have those deadlines but for those of us
who are self-studying you kind of need
to set like artificial deadlines for
yourself something that keeps you
accountable like maybe a presentation or
just having a study group and the Third
Way is by generating an emotional
response like if you can find a reason
why you should care about what you're
studying that would help because you're
emotionally invested in what you're
studying I try to incorporate stories
into my study material so you see brains
are designed to be able to focus better
on stories because that's that's the way
that we perceive the world around us so
if you're able to connect what you're
learning to stories you'll be able to
focus a lot better from turning content
into stories one of my favorite AI apps
is called character. a we're able to
create a character based upon some sort
of context for example we can make that
person into Abraham Lincoln where the
great Gods be or your Japanese teacher
something like that so you're able to
have those conversations and have those
stories and it makes learning a lot more
fun and you can concentrate a lot
better oh this is taking too long I got
to stop procrastinating the next issue
that people have is the tendency to
procrastinate and not have motivation I
un proudly say that I am the queen of
procrastination long live the queen long
live the queen so to understand
procrastination we need to talk about
dopamine I go into more detail about how
dopamine Works where you can check out
in that video but what I want to talk
about here is that dopamine is
responsible for motivation there's a
couple things that you can do to get
over procrastination the first one is
going to be by regenerating your
dopamine there's a lot of ways that you
can do this you can kind of just like
waight it out and you will at some point
have enough motivation you can freak out
because you have a deadline coming up
which will suddenly spike your dopamine
and then you'll have the motivation one
of my favorite techniques is by doing
something that you really really don't
want to do for me that's usually like
taking cold showers it's like the wor
worst activity I can think of so when I
think about taking a cold shower my
dopamine actually dips way down because
I really don't want to do it but if I
actually get myself to do it there would
be a sping Spike of dopamine afterwards
because the terrible activity is over
that would give me the motivation to
start working on stuff my second method
is by decreasing the amount of
motivation that you need in order to get
started on a project you know that
terrible feeling when you're just
looking at a blank paper with your
cursor blinking that is what is called
the cold start problem this is such a
game-changing application of AI I
usually just use chbt and whatever it is
that I'm trying to write whether that be
an essay or like code or something like
that I just input it into chat CHP and
have it give me like the first draft of
something I generally go back in and
change a lot of what Chad BT gives me
but it helps lower that barrier of
motivation that I need and once I
actually have something on the page I
just feel a lot better like it's a lot
easier to start tweaking it and working
on it by the way how many of you guys
are like wow these things you've been
talking about I have problems with all
of them it's okay I have problems with
all of them myself so after I get
through these other points that can help
you study way faster I'm going to show
you my compl complete process of
self-studying where I use all of these
techniques together as we can see AI
tools like Chach BT are a huge game
changer to help you study way faster and
be way more productive HubSpot kindly
sponsoring this portion of this video
has a whole bunch of resources designed
to help you unlock the full potential of
Chachi PT and make you super productive
it's very well laid out and gives you a
lot of ways on how you can incorporate
Chach PT into your studies your work and
your life for example using Chach PT to
consolidate a bunch of different
Learning Materials like articles
tutorials and resources so you you can
directly ask questions to extract
relevant pieces of information as
opposed to having to like flip through
and read through all of them we're
keeping you up to date in industry news
different updates you care about time
management as well and task
prioritization which if you're like me
and you have like 10 different things
that you should be doing at all times
and then getting overwhelm freaking out
and doing none of them my favorite
section from the bundle is this nice
little flowchart which tells you when
it's appropriate to use chat gbt and
when it's not so the best part of all of
this is that this bundle of resources is
absolutely free you can download it
using this link over here also linked in
description thank you hubot for kindly
sponsoring this portion of the video and
providing these awesome resources for
free the next thing that makes your self
studying a lot slower than it should be
is the inability to remember stuff so
you end up having to relearn things over
and over getet generally what people
talk about when they're explaining how
to remember things better they refer to
this forgetting curve which is basically
once you learn something the information
that you're retaining decreases over
time uh which you can combat by
revisiting that information periodically
so you would forget less you check out
tools like anky as well as Quizlet and
they both have like AI integration so it
can help you make flashcards quicker and
you can use them more efficiently which
is great if you're learning stuff like
biology but what if you're learning more
technical subjects like math or computer
science something like that so that's
why I want to bring back the memory
model that I talked about earlier when
we talked about concentration we were
talking about that beginning mechanism
filtering out a relevant information and
focusing on the right things to go into
short-term memory so the first thing you
can do so that you can actually hold it
in your brain for over 30 seconds and be
able to rehearse that information so
like get it deeply ingrained in
long-term memory is by using different
methods to learn the same thing for
example you can read a book that talks
about how rest apis work you can also
make a rest API or use a rest API
yourself you can also watch a video
about how rest API Works a tutorial
about it you get my point so lots of
different ways learning the same thing
by encoding that information in many
different ways you're able to make more
connections associated with that
information like the rest API and
strengthen that memory so that it's like
a fortified castle that is resistant to
people trying to demolish
it the procedure is actually quite
simple first you arrange things into a
different groups of course one pile may
be sufficient depending on how much
there is to do if you have to go
somewhere else due to lack of facilities
that is the next step otherwise you are
pretty well set after the procedure is
completed one arranges the materials
into different groups again then they
can be put into their appropriate
places so you probably did not remember
most of what it is that I said but if I
told you that this passage was about
doing laundry and I'll read you the
first couple of sentences again the
procedure is actually quite simple first
you arrange things into different groups
of course one pile may be sufficient
depending on how much there is to do see
it like makes sense right when I tell
you that it's about doing laundry this
is one of my favorite Studies by
Bransford and Johnson memories are asso
associated with other memories and other
things that we know so if you can
associate a new piece of information
with something that you already know a
memory that you already have your
ability to remember things will
dramatically increase a way that I like
to do this is by doing mind maps like
for example if I'm doing like a web
development project I would associate
all the different parts of web
development like the front end the back
end the database and the Frameworks and
tools in order to build a website a
tools make mind mapping a lot easier but
unfortunately Chachi BT is not really
good at this it is really really bad at
drawing pictures that have words in them
so other AI tools like chat mine for
example are specialized in creating mind
maps so they can be really
helpful everybody's a genius but if you
judge a fish by its ability to climb a
tree it will live its whole life
believing that it is stupid if you think
you're stupid because you can't
understand things it may be that you're
just not learning the correct way for
example if you told me that I have to
read textbooks to learn things I would
either lose my mind fall asleep or do do
both but if I'm pacing around listening
to the audio version of the information
at 2.5 to 3x the speed and then revising
it really quickly I feel like super Tina
you may have heard this idea that people
are divided into three different types
of Learners visual Learners audio
Learners and kinesthetic Learners
apparently this has been debunked in
more recent years but the researchers
all conclude that it is true that
different people learn better by doing
different things AI is such a wonderful
tool for this because you're no longer
bound to however the information is
being presented that you can use
speechify to translate text into audio
form you can use a video to create
Concepts into educational videos which
brings me to my method of self-studying
really really quickly but before I do
that I just want to address like one
more issue that people have that Wast a
lot of time which is spending a lot of
time coming up with a study plan and the
right resources so honestly there's no
perfect study plan but um what I love to
do is I actually like using Chachi BT
and asking Chachi BT to come up with a
study plan for me and also link some of
the resources there I might like change
the resources I might start changing
like text information into other
information and things like that but it
saves so much time because you don't
have to agonize over what your study
plan should be to begin with now finally
I want to share with you guys my full
mechanism for how I study very very
quickly so the first step is I got to
give myself dopamine boost because I am
like such a big problem with
procrastination and I swear to God I
spend like 80% of the time
procrastinating so that's where the cold
showers come in so I generally either
use audio forms of content where I
translate text into audio forms and I'll
just like literally walk around just
like for hours absorbing that
information and I usually play at 2.5
and 3 times the speed not trying to
understand everything but just like
understanding enough of what's Happening
then I would come back and review that
information which is so much faster like
I'm able just to go through it one more
time and the information just like goes
into my brain I actually have this habit
of having like tutorials open like for
example I was learning how to use l
chain I actually just played a l chain
tutorial on audio form I just walked
around and then I kind of understood
like how it worked if I'm not able to
understand certain Concepts I would
usually change them into video form into
audio form or into mind maps that helps
a lot and I also tend to learn by doing
I would just start working on the
project and then whatever issue that I
may have it's easier for me to reverse
engineer it and then just like figure it
out as I'm going it's a lot faster than
me trying to understand everything first
and then doing the project if I'm trying
to learn a language I try to get over my
embarrassment and just speak that
language
[Music]
and finally to boost my ability to
remember things if it's like information
that I have to rot memorize I would use
the inky Quizlet flash card method but
there's one more thing that I haven't
talked about that I love doing this is
something that's called State dependent
learning resar did this really funny
study where they had three groups of
students the first group of students
would just be like studying in their
normal State and the second group of
students were studying while they were
drunk then when they had to do their
final exams students that were sober
studying some of them did exams sober
and some of them did exam drunk while
the drunk students some of them did
their exams sober and some of them did
their exam he drunk the results were
very interesting so not the part in
which if you're sober and then you're
also sober when you take the exam like
that is obviously like the best no
surprises there but what was really
interesting was students that studied
drunk actually performed better when
they also took the exam drunk as opposed
to the students that were studying drunk
and took the exam sober this is because
when you're encoding information into
your memory it also matters like the
context your environment and your
physical situation in which you're
encoding that information so when you're
trying to take that information out of
your memory again by having a similar
like physical state like drunkenness as
well as like physical environments and
things like that you're able to get that
information out easier so I generally
tend to study and like in similar kind
of environments and in similar States so
when I am trying to like remember that
information in the future um it it helps
all right so I hope this was a helpful
video for you let me know in the
comments what you think you can change
now that you've watched this video that
will boost your self-studying also let
me know if you're also someone that
basically has all the problems like me
so I don't feel alone all right I'll see
you in the next video or live stream